Q.1) Which one of the following situations best reflects the term "Indirect Transfers" often talked about in the media with reference to India? 
a) An Indian company investing in a foreign enterprise and paying taxes to the foreign country on the profits arising out of its investment.
b) A foreign company investing in India and paying taxes to the country of its base on the profits arising out of its investment.
c) An Indian company purchases tangible assets in a foreign country and sells such assets after their value increases and transfers the proceeds to India. 
d) A foreign company transfers shares and such shares derive their substantial value from assets located in India.
Ans) d
Exp) Option d is the correct answer.
Indirect transfers refer to situations where foreign entities own shares or assets in India, when the shares of such foreign entities are transferred and if such shares or interest derive a substantial value from assets located in India.

Q.2) With reference to revised classification of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises in India (effective from 1st April 2025), consider the following statements:
I. An enterprise with Investment in Plant & Machinery of ₹1.5 crore and Annual Turnover of ₹8 crore. 
II. An enterprise with Investment in Plant & Machinery of ₹4 crore and Annual Turnover of ₹8 crore.
III. An enterprise with Investment in Plant & Machinery of ₹1.8 crore and Annual Turnover of ₹12 crore. 
How many of the above enterprises can be classified as a Micro Enterprise as per the revised official definition?
a) Only one
b) Only two
c) All the three
d) None
Ans) a
Exp) Option a is the correct answer.
From April 1, 2025, the government has raised both investment and turnover limits for classifying MSMEs.

Q.3) Consider the following statements:
Statement I: Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act 2003 provides for the responsibility of the Central Government to ensure inter-generational equity in fiscal management.
Statement II: As per the Ricardian Equivalence, the government borrowings today will come at lesser cost than future borrowings to stimulate aggregate demand in the economy.
Which one of the following is correct in respect of the above statements?
a) Both Statement I and Statement II are correct and Statement II explains Statement I
b) Both Statement I and Statement II are correct and Statement II does not explain Statement I
c) Statement I is correct but Statement II is not correct
d) Statement I is not correct but Statement II is correct
Ans) c
Exp) Option c is the correct answer.
Statement I is correct. Statement II is incorrect.

Q.4) With reference to Indian economy, consider the following goods:
I. Street lighting
II. Rice given in Public Distribution System
III. Policing/Police Services
IV. Medicines sold at a chemist shop
V. Flood Control 
How many of the above can be considered as the Public good in India?
a) Only two
b) Only three
c) Only four
d) All five
Ans) b
Exp) Option b is the correct answer.

Q.5) Consider the following:
1. Demographic performance
2. Forest and ecology
3. Governance reforms
4. Stable government
5. Tax and fiscal efforts
For the horizontal tax devolution, the Fifteenth Finance Commission used how many of the above as criteria other than population, area and income distance? 
a) Only two
b) Only three
c) Only four
d) All five
Ans) b
Exp) Option b is the correct answer.
