Q.1) Which one of the following situations best reflects the term "Indirect Transfers" often talked about in the media with reference to India? 
a) An Indian company investing in a foreign enterprise and paying taxes to the foreign country on the profits arising out of its investment.
b) A foreign company investing in India and paying taxes to the country of its base on the profits arising out of its investment.
c) An Indian company purchases tangible assets in a foreign country and sells such assets after their value increases and transfers the proceeds to India. 
d) A foreign company transfers shares and such shares derive their substantial value from assets located in India.
Ans) d
Exp) Option d is the correct answer.
Indirect transfers refer to situations where foreign entities own shares or assets in India, when the shares of such foreign entities are transferred and if such shares or interest derive a substantial value from assets located in India. Then such transfer is commonly referred to as Indirect transfers.

Q.2) With reference to revised classification of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises in India (effective from 1st April 2025), consider the following statements:
I. An enterprise with Investment in Plant & Machinery of ₹1.5 crore and Annual Turnover of ₹8 crore. 
II. An enterprise with Investment in Plant & Machinery of ₹4 crore and Annual Turnover of ₹8 crore.
III. An enterprise with Investment in Plant & Machinery of ₹1.8 crore and Annual Turnover of ₹12 crore. 
How many of the above enterprises can be classified as a Micro Enterprise as per the revised official definition?
a) Only one
b) Only two
c) All the three
d) None
Ans) a
Exp) Option a is the correct answer.
From April 1, 2025, the government has raised both investment and turnover limits for classifying MSMEs so that more units can benefit from the MSME framework and grow without quickly losing their status. For micro enterprises, the investment ceiling in plant and machinery or equipment has been raised from ₹1 crore to ₹2.5 crore, and the turnover limit has been increased from ₹5 crore to ₹10 crore.

Q.3) Consider the following statements:
Statement I: Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act 2003 provides for the responsibility of the Central Government to ensure inter-generational equity in fiscal management.
Statement II: As per the Ricardian Equivalence, the government borrowings today will come at lesser cost than future borrowings to stimulate aggregate demand in the economy.
Which one of the following is correct in respect of the above statements?
a) Both Statement I and Statement II are correct and Statement II explains Statement I
b) Both Statement I and Statement II are correct and Statement II does not explain Statement I
c) Statement I is correct but Statement II is not correct
d) Statement I is not correct but Statement II is correct
Ans) c
Exp) Option c is the correct answer.
Statement I is correct: The Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act, 2003, is an Act to provide for the responsibility of the Central Government to ensure inter-generational equity in fiscal management and long-term macro-economic stability.
Statement II is incorrect: Ricardian Equivalence claims that when governments finance expenditures through debt rather than immediate taxation, rational consumers anticipate future tax increases.

Q.4) With reference to Indian economy, consider the following goods:
I. Street lighting
II. Rice given in Public Distribution System
III. Policing/Police Services
IV. Medicines sold at a chemist shop
V. Flood Control 
How many of the above can be considered as the Public good in India?
a) Only two
b) Only three
c) Only four
d) All five

Q.5) Consider the following:
1. Demographic performance
2. Forest and ecology
3. Governance reforms
4. Stable government
5. Tax and fiscal efforts
For the horizontal tax devolution, the Fifteenth Finance Commission used how many of the above as criteria other than population, area and income distance? 
a) Only two
b) Only three
c) Only four
d) All five

Q.6) Which of the following are considered as the objectives of the fiscal policy of Government of India?
I. Ensuring distribution of free goods 
II. Redistribution of income and reducing economic inequality
III. Stabilizing the level of aggregate demand in economy
Select the correct answer using the code given below:
a) I, II and III
b) II and III only
c) I and III only
d) I and II only

Q.7) With reference to Union Budget, consider the following statements about Grant in aids:
Statement I: Grants-in-aid from foreign countries and international organisations are considered as revenue receipts of Government of India. 
Statement II: Grants-in-aid do not create any repayment liability or future claim on the Government of India.
Which one of the following is correct in respect of the above statements?
a) Both Statement I and Statement II are correct and Statement II explains Statement I
b) Both Statement I and Statement II are correct and Statement II does not explain Statement I
c) Statement I is correct but Statement II is not correct
d) Statement I is not correct but Statement II is correct

Q.8) Which of the following documents are presented besides the Finance Minister's Budget Speech, in the same session of Parliament in which the Budget is laid down before Parliament?
I. Medium-Term Fiscal Policy cum Fiscal Policy Strategy Statement
II. Medium-term Expenditure Framework Statement
III. Macroeconomic Framework Statement
Select the correct answer using the code given below:
a) I and II only
b) II and III only
c) I and III only
d) I, II and III

Q.9) Consider the following major reforms/events in the evolution of Independent India's Budgetary process and arrange them in the correct chronological order:
I. Introduction of Gender Budgeting in the Union Budget.
II. Introduction of first paperless (digital) Union Budget.
III. Merger of the Railway Budget with the Union Budget.
Select the correct answer using the code given below:
a) I - II - III
b) I - III - II 
c) II - I - III
d) III - II - I

Q.10) If over successive years the difference between the Fiscal Deficit and the Primary Deficit keeps widening, it most appropriately reflects:
a) a decline in the government's overall interest payment obligations
b) a rising burden of government's interest payments on past debt
c) a contraction in government's revenue expenditure relative to capital expenditure
d) an increase in the government's non-debt capital receipts over the years
