Q.1) Which one of the following situations best 
reflects the term "Indirect Transfers" often 
talked about in the media with reference to 
India? 
a) An Indian company investing in a foreign 
enterprise and paying taxes to the foreign 
country on the profits arising out of its 
investment.
b) A foreign company investing in India and 
paying taxes to the country of its base on 
the profits arising out of its investment.
c) An Indian company purchases tangible 
assets in a foreign country and sells such 
assets after their value increases and 
transfers the proceeds to India. 
d) A foreign company transfers shares and 
such shares derive their substantial value 
from assets located in India.
Q.2) With reference to revised classification of 
Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises in India 
(effective from 1st April 2025), consider the 
following statements:
I. An enterprise with Investment in Plant & 
Machinery of ₹1.5 crore and Annual 
Turnover of ₹8 crore. 
II. An enterprise with Investment in Plant & 
Machinery of ₹4 crore and Annual 
Turnover of ₹8 crore.
III. An enterprise with Investment in Plant & 
Machinery of ₹1.8 crore and Annual 
Turnover of ₹12 crore. 
How many of the above enterprises can be 
classified as a Micro Enterprise as per the 
revised official definition?
a) Only one
b) Only two
c) All the three
d) None
Q.3) Consider the following statements:
Statement I: Fiscal Responsibility and Budget 
Management Act 2003 provides for the 
responsibility of the Central Government to 
ensure inter-generational equity in fiscal 
management.
Statement II: As per the Ricardian 
Equivalence, the government borrowings 
today will come at lesser cost than future 
borrowings to stimulate aggregate demand in 
the economy.
Which one of the following is correct in 
respect of the above statements?
a) Both Statement I and Statement II are 
correct and Statement II explains 
Statement I
b) Both Statement I and Statement II are 
correct and Statement II does not explain 
Statement I
c) Statement I is correct but Statement II is 
not correct
d) Statement I is not correct but Statement II 
is correct
Page 2 of 10
SFG 2026 | LEVEL 1 | Test 13 | Test 321112 |
Forum Learning Centre: Delhi - Plot No. 36, 4th Floor (Above Kalyan Jewellers), Pusa Road, Karol Bagh, New Delhi - 110005 | Patna - 2nd floor, AG Palace, E Boring
Canal Road, Patna, Bihar 800001 | Hyderabad - 1st & 2nd Floor, SM Plaza, RTC X Rd, Indira Park Road, Jawahar Nagar, Hyderabad, Telangana 500020
9311740400, 9311740404 | https://academy.forumias.com | admissions@forumias.academy | helpdesk@forumias.academy
Q.6) Which of the following are considered as 
the objectives of the fiscal policy of 
Government of India?
I. Ensuring distribution of free goods 
II. Redistribution of income and reducing 
economic inequality
III. Stabilizing the level of aggregate demand 
in economy
Select the correct answer using the code given 
below:
a) I, II and III
b) II and III only
c) I and III only
d) I and II only
Q.7) With reference to Union Budget, consider 
the following statements about Grant in aids:
Statement I: Grants-in-aid from foreign 
countries and international organisations are 
considered as revenue receipts of Government 
of India. 
Statement II: Grants-in-aid do not create any 
repayment liability or future claim on the 
Government of India.
Which one of the following is correct in 
respect of the above statements?
a) Both Statement I and Statement II are 
correct and Statement II explains 
Statement I
b) Both Statement I and Statement II are 
correct and Statement II does not explain 
Statement I
c) Statement I is correct but Statement II is 
not correct
d) Statement I is not correct but Statement II 
is correct
